>> Scott: So directives, I kinda just
talked about it for a little bit.
You'll probably almost never use these
until you become like, I don't know,
you just become really badass at GraphQL.
You're just like, I'm just out here making
custom directives because I can, sure,
there's some pretty crazy
stuff you can do here.
There's tons of plugins you can download,
the best way I can describe it,
is you can think
about it as middleware for
a field or an entity.
Cuz you can put a directive on a field,
you can also put it on a type as well.
And it's basically middleware for
that, it's a function that will run to
hijack when that entity is either created,
there's many life cycles.
So a directive allows you to tie
into the life cycle of a field or
an entity and do something when
that life cycle is triggered.
So, I wanna run this function,
for instance, deprecated.
If we were to add this,
this is a built-in directive,
what this would do is it would add
a comment in the notes of the GraphQL
explorer that we're using to let you
know that it's deprecated, right?
So if I were to go look at the schema here
and one of these fields are deprecated,
it would probably tell me.
So let's go that just so
you can see what I'm talking about.
Profile, let's just say at deprecated,
I can spell, is that how you spell that?
Deprecated.
>> Scott: Yeah, that is how you spell it.
So you can give it a reason,
you can put whatever you want there.
So I'll say deprecated reason no more,
right?
I say that, I can go back to our username
and pretty sure this is built-in,
let's see.
>> Scott: I put single quotes, gotta put
double quotes I do that all the time.
It's very strict, there we go.
So now if I go back to our schema,
I put that on the person.
>> Scott: Or no, it wasn't all perfect,
it was on profile, right?
There we go, and
you see right here, deprecated.
That's what that directive does it just
tells you that this field is deprecated.
It's mostly for documentation, and
there are some other built-in ones.
Some of the ones that I've made that were
useful and I'll talk a little more about
it when it gets authentication where
we're like directors for authentication.
So in my schema,
this is where it gets really powerful.
For a search result there are some
things you want non-logged
in people to be able to search for.
But then there's some things you don't
want them to be able to search for
unless they're logged in, right?
So for a profile, I say,
all right, I'll let you search for
a profile you can see their username and
ID, but you can't see who the person is.
So this is all, and maybe I'll say,
required true or something like that.
So I'll make a directive that this field,
if access through a query has
to pass authentication, otherwise it can't
be sent down right on a field level.
So I can do a field level, I can do
a query level, I can do a type level.
So you can get pretty granular with
the things that you wanna show, and
then I would have to go write
the code to make this work.
And it's not too crazy, we won't be
writing custom directives today,
cuz I think it is this
a little more advanced, but
this is probably one of
the best use cases I've seen.
Just to note,
directives are a type of entity and
GraphQL that work on the schema,
but also in the query.
But those are two different types of
directives, so you can do directives and
the query as well.
And I've seen some pretty cool ones,
I've almost never really used them.
There's a few ones that some of them have,
but
I think some of the really
cool ones that I've seen,
were only see Lodash GraphQL,
this one's pretty cool.
You can do Lodash functions on a query.
So if you never use Lodash, it's like
helper methods that allow you to operate
on arrays and objects, every filter.
I mean, some of the stuff is built
into Javascript global now, but for
the most part, it's quite useful.
So you can run Lodash functions
as directives inside your,
query, which is quite
impressive in my opinion.
So this is a useful example of the power
of what you can do with directives.
And there's tons of these out there,
so you can get pretty creative.
But for the most part it's like yeah,
you could do this here.
But I feel do I really wanna build
an API that allows people to do that or
should I just have it taken as an argument
and write that in the code myself?
It really just depends on what use
case you want and things like that.
>> Scott: Okay,
any questions on directives?
>> Scott: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: How does GraphQL access
these things that would seem to be outside
the scope of querying a dB?
Does it have some kind of callback hook?
>> Scott: Yeah, exactly,
it does have some type of callback hook.
I've been kinda talking about it, but it's
basically, you would have to write code
that ties into the, there's life cycle
methods of how a graphical schema is
processed when it starts, when it's being
validated, when a field is accessed.
If you've ever worked on any
type of language before or
tried to build a language, there's
something called an abstract syntax tree,
it does pattern matching, right?
And it will figure out, okay, this is
a node, this is a node, this is a node,
this is a node, every language does this,
And GraphQL is a language, and
you can hook into that.
You can say, cool,
I want to run this function when a node or
a node whose type is filled is accessed,
run my function first, right?
So you can do that and
that function can be a directive.
So you can say run this directive first,
but
what actually ends up happening for
some of those queries that I showed you,
those queries are probably happening
after the data is resolved, right?
So it's after the data is resolved, run
this directive, and then that directive
uses that Lodash function to apply
it to the data that was resolved.
Because you can tie into many
stages of a hook inside of GraphQL.
So I would imagine the Lodash one is
probably tying into after that field or
that query was resolved before
they send the results back.
Use this directives function to process
the data and then send that back.
I'm pretty sure that's what's happening
because it would need the data first.
So yes,
you can hook into different stages and
different nodes in GraphQL and
it's really, really, really powerful.
Okay, and
then there's some more built-in ones,
but no one's really using directives
like that, I'm gonna be honest.
They're powerful, but
it's just like is it worth it?
Who knows?
Cool, the next one is input types.
Input types are a description.
We haven't talked about arguments yet,
so maybe we'll talk about arguments.
Right now, we'll talk about enums.
So enums are exactly what they sound like,
if you ever built a database or
even use Typescript,
an enum is just saying it's a string type,
but it's gotta be one of these strings.
That's basically what an enum type is,
right?
So I can come here, I can say,
I wanna make an enum.
I'm gonna call this enum STATUSES,
I guess.
Typically, enums are all caps,
but they don't have to be.
And I can say one status is in progress,
another status is done,
another one is to do.
So I have statuses here and then now,
let's make a new type guess just for
the heck of it.
I could say type a to-do and might have
a status on it whose type is STATUSES,
like that.
>> Scott: And it's basically the same as
a database, same as any type language.
It's just saying it's
gotta be one of these.